.TH NEF2JPG 1 "2026-03-25" "0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nef2jpg \- convert Nikon NEF RAW files to JPEG
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nef2jpg
[\fIDIRECTORY\fR]
.br
.B nef2jpg
[\fB\-h\fR | \fB\-\-help\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nef2jpg
searches all immediate subdirectories of the given
.I DIRECTORY
for Nikon RAW files
.RB ( .nef )
and converts them to high-quality JPEG images using camera white balance and sRGB colour settings.
.PP
Converted images are placed in a subfolder named
.B unedit
inside each subdirectory. If no
.I DIRECTORY
is provided, the current working directory is used.
.PP
Only one level of subdirectories is searched \(em the tool does not recurse deeper.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display this documentation in the terminal and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Convert all NEF files found under
.IR /home/user/photos :
.PP
.nf
    nef2jpg /home/user/photos
.fi
.PP
Run in the current directory:
.PP
.nf
    nef2jpg
.fi
.SH OUTPUT
Before conversion the tool prints a file count summary and prompts the user to confirm:
.PP
.nf
    directory:  /home/user/photos
    time: 0.0021 s
    NEF files:  42     non NEF files: 5
    want to proceed [Y/n]:
.fi
.PP
Progress is printed for each file, followed by a final summary:
.PP
.nf
    picture prossed [1]:  IMG_001.NEF     2.3s
    ...
    NEF files:  42   no NEF files:  5
    time: 97.4s
    avrage time: 2.32s
.fi
.SH CONVERSION SETTINGS
.TS
l l l.
Parameter	Value	Description
_
White balance	Camera WB	Uses the camera's white balance
Brightness	Auto	Automatic brightness adjustment
Highlights	Blend (mode 2)	Best highlight recovery
Gamma	(1.5, 4.5)	sRGB gamma curve
Colour space	sRGB	Standard colour space
Bit depth	8 bit	Standard JPEG depth
JPEG quality	100	Maximum quality
.TE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I <directory>/<session>/unedit/*.jpg
Output JPEG files, written alongside the original NEF files.
.SH NOTES
Existing
.B unedit
folders are reused without being overwritten. Files without a
.B .nef
extension are skipped and included in the non-NEF count.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by nani.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rawpy (1),
.BR convert (1)
